README.md, before:

# Introduction

## Why Inspired Ink?
The thought behind Inspired Ink is to invite creative minds with an itch for expressing themselves in writing to get those ideas down on 'paper', so to say, while also prodiving the opportunity to enjoy fellow writers work and leave comments or feedback.

With many forums for writing singling out a specific kind of creative writing, say fiction or poems, Inspired Ink offers a wider variety of categories for your work so that you don't have to search for one site per category. This makes it easier for beginners and master alike to share their work in one single space as well as for others to find a varied asortment of works without having to scour the internet depending on what they're looking for.

## Site goals
The goal of Inspired Ink is to provide writers from all different skill-levels to have a place to express themselves without feeling the preassure of comparing themselves to the grand minds of poetry or novel sites, where famous writers are often quoted or used as inspiration.

Writing doesn't have to be complicated or up to a certain standard, which is what I want to offer with Inspired Ink; a basic, age-less, relaxed place to write down whatever creative blurb floating around your head and categorize it the best you can.

# Agile and User Stories
The baseline of my User Stories are collected in an Excel file that I then transferred into a Github Project that uses an agile approach. See [Here](https://github.com/users/AuroraStorm-sw/projects/7) for the full project.

Each User Story is made up of an Epic, Acceptance critera, and a number of tasks, each User Story being tagged with either "must have" and/or "nice to have". I decided to collect all "must have" and "nice to have" tasks in the same User Story to keep it nice and neat.
To view all User Stories, please see the above link.

# Scope
For the site to reach its full potential for a user, these features are included in the release:

# Wireframe

# Datasbase model

# Design

The overall idea for the design was based on parchment - old, stained brown parchment which gives a bit of an old cozy feeling without coming across as pretentious. 
The issue I find with some blogs and forums for creative writing is that they can portray this sense of professionalism that scares beginners away from joining in on writing, which is something I don't want on my website. 
I want it to feel welcoming and homey, which is another reason for the choice of colors and layouts.

Given the name of the website, I decided to implement a few drops of ink here and there, mainly for the logo and for user to "ink" a post in the same way you "like" a post, giving the webpage a bit more character and staying true to its name.

No more endless scrolling through cluttered pages overflowing with thin lines of post links; no more uncomfortable brightness that has you reaching for sunglasses; this webpage offers calming nuances of brown with a splash of color.

## Colors
I based the colors around the background image and used [Coolors](https://coolors.co) to create a palette based on one of the nuances. 

![Palette](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691166288/palette_e1c8em.png)

From this palette, I ended up focusing on the colors #3a2202 and #b96e46, and a few details of #774605. With black text on top of these reddish brown colors pop enough to make the font visible, but not without taking away from the calm vibes.

## Fonts

For fonts I ended up with Inkut Antiqua for main headers and links. I searched for "Ink" on [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com) and stumbled across this font by accident, but felt immediately that it fits the vibe of my website.

![Inkut](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691167044/font-inknut_yimden.png)

For paragraphs, I picked Roboto, which is a very casual font that works well together with Inkut that stands out as a more expressive font, and I found these two to compliment each other nicely.

![Roboto](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691167044/font-roboto_dfxcrd.png)

# Features
- Home page
    - Navbar

    The navbar consists of a basic Bootstrap navbar with tabs and a dropdown for categories that includes a hamburger menu for smaller viewports.
    When logged in, the user can navigate between the home page, available categories, create a new ink, or sign out.
    For users without an account or who aren't logged in, they can navigate between the home page, available categories, sign in, or create an account.
    The logo also serves as a link back to the home page.

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146805/img-nav_c8igfc.png)

    - Intro

    The home page introduction consists of a few paragraphs of text explaining what the website is about and for whom, inspiring users to create their own Inks and leaving feedback or inkdrops (likes) on others'.

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146807/img-intro_cxw4kz.png)

    - Inks

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146806/img-posts_yiuvph.png)

    - Footer

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146804/img-footer_aazqge.png)

- Create a new Ink
    - Write

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146805/img-create_sfsiwh.png)

    - Edit Ink

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147794/img-update_jxgaif.png)

    - Delete Ink

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146804/img-delete_j7e422.png)

- Category Archive

    - Category

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147906/img-category_swghga.png)

- Account
    - Create account

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146805/img-create-account_ugtqsx.png)

    - Sign in/Sign out

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146742/img-sign-in_a3hyn0.png)


# Technologies Used
## Languages
- HTML5
- CSS
- Python
- Javascript
## Django packages
## Frameworks/Libraries

## Resourses
- [Table Converter](https://tableconvert.com/) for Manual Testing
- [Tinypng](https://tinypng.com/) for compressing background image

# Credits

## Images
- [Background image](https://www.pexels.com/photo/empty-brown-canvas-235985/)
- [Quote image](https://abstract.desktopnexus.com/get/1737801/?t=146uo7bue09b2o59gjgv030rd364ccdb5086d33)

## Icons
- https://icon-sets.iconify.design/mdi/ink/
- https://icon-sets.iconify.design/mdi/ink-plus/
- https://icon-sets.iconify.design/mdi/ink-plus-outline/

## Sources for example posts
- [Poem by Sappho](https://ozofe.com/sappho/to-atthis-the-inconstant/)
- [Poem by Maya Angelou](https://ozofe.com/maya-angelou/on-aging/)
- [Heiku by Ezra Pond](https://reedsy.com/discovery/blog/haiku-poem-examples)
- [Part of the lyrics to War by Poets Of the Fall](https://www.songlyrics.com/poets-of-the-fall/war-lyrics/)
- [The story of an Hour by Kate Chopin](https://americanliterature.com/author/kate-chopin/short-story/the-story-of-an-hour ) 
- [Lyric part of Lie to Me by Riell](https://genius.com/Riell-lie-to-me-lyrics) 

# Testing

## Validator testing


[W3 HTML checker](https://validator.w3.org)

All pages of the website has been run through W3, with two of them coming out with seemingly false positive results.

## No errors

- Sign in

![SignIn](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/test-login_fl1u4l.png)

- Sign out

![SignOut](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/test-sign-out_s9dhoi.png)

- Sign up

![SignUp](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/test-signup_bftkjh.png)

 - Home page

![Home](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/test-home_rwd4lx.png)

 - Add new ink

![AddInk](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/test-add-ink_tq3a5e.png)

 - View Ink post

![Category](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/test-category_w6bujd.png)

- Delete Ink

![InkDelete](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/text-delete_jhahvj.png)


## Errors

The errors have been documented into their separate Issue [Here #12](https://github.com/AuroraStorm-sw/Inspired-Ink/issues/12).

## [CI Python Linter](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/)

Each .py file has been passed through the linter with very few errors; those coming up were in regards to trailing whitespace, missing space, and missing new line at the end of the code. These were all easily fixed, and the files are now free of errors.

![linter](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/linter-test-model_hslsux.png)

### Accessability

## [Lighthouse](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/overview/)

![Lighthouse](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691159942/lighthouse_eipqg2.png)

## [Axe DevTools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/axe-devtools-web-accessib/lhdoppojpmngadmnindnejefpokejbdd)

![AxeDevtools](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691160050/axe-devtools_nary38.png)

## [WAVE](https://wave.webaim.org/)
![WAVE](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691164948/wave_dxpdvl.png)


## Manual testing


![]()
![]()
![]()

| Action           | Expected Result                                                                                                                                | Pass |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| Account creation | I can create a new account with username and password, and be notified that it's created successfully, or if not                               | Pass |
| Sign in          | I can sign in with my username and accound and get notified that I've been successfully signed in                                              | Pass |
| Sign out         | When signed in, I can sign out of the webpage, be asked if I'm sure I want to sign out, and be notified that I've been successfully signed out | Pass |
| Navbar           | Each link in the navbar takes me to the correct corresponding page. There are different paged depenting on if I am signed in or not.           | Pass |
| Create post      | When signed in, I can write an 'Ink', being a cretive text of my choice, and submit it. I'll be notified that it's successfully submitted.     | Pass |
| Edit post        | When signed in, I can edit my own posts, and be notified that it has been successfully edited                                                  | Pass |
| Delete post      | When signed in, I can delete my own posts, be asked if I'm sure I want to delete it, and be notified that it has been successfully deleted     | Pass |
| Comment on post  | When signed in, I can leave feedback on other's posts. My comment is then visible beneath the post.                                            | Pass |
| Like/unlike post | When signed in, I can like and unlike other's posts. The icon changes                                                                          | Pass |
| Category         | I can browse different categories via the navbar                                                                                               | Pass |
| Pagination       | I can browse through multiple pages on the home page if there are more than six posts                                                          | Pass |
| Links            | All of the links throughout the page are fully functional                                                                                      | Pass |
| Buttons          | All of the buttons direct me to their designated function                                                                                      | Pass |
| Footer           | I can reach the different social medias sites via the footer, and they all open in new tabs.                                                   | Pass |



# Bugs
1. Lingering 'missing data' in category table after migrating the category model and category addition to Post without creating a category index.
Solution: Reset the database to remove the error and recreate superuser.

2. Static files not loading on Heroku.
Solution: Through tutor support, they found a spelling error in loading style.css in base.html after a lot of trial and error.

3. View height on the webpage is too high, forcing the user to scroll to see the footer.


# Deployment

# Final thoughts

Commit message:

Center button on category section for easier, clearer access, add information about features in readme

README.md, after:

# Introduction

## Why Inspired Ink?
The thought behind Inspired Ink is to invite creative minds with an itch for expressing themselves in writing to get those ideas down on 'paper', so to say, while also prodiving the opportunity to enjoy fellow writers work and leave comments or feedback.

With many forums for writing singling out a specific kind of creative writing, say fiction or poems, Inspired Ink offers a wider variety of categories for your work so that you don't have to search for one site per category. This makes it easier for beginners and master alike to share their work in one single space as well as for others to find a varied asortment of works without having to scour the internet depending on what they're looking for.

## Site goals
The goal of Inspired Ink is to provide writers from all different skill-levels to have a place to express themselves without feeling the preassure of comparing themselves to the grand minds of poetry or novel sites, where famous writers are often quoted or used as inspiration.

Writing doesn't have to be complicated or up to a certain standard, which is what I want to offer with Inspired Ink; a basic, age-less, relaxed place to write down whatever creative blurb floating around your head and categorize it the best you can.

# Agile and User Stories
The baseline of my User Stories are collected in an Excel file that I then transferred into a Github Project that uses an agile approach. See [Here](https://github.com/users/AuroraStorm-sw/projects/7) for the full project.

Each User Story is made up of an Epic, Acceptance critera, and a number of tasks, each User Story being tagged with either "must have" and/or "nice to have". I decided to collect all "must have" and "nice to have" tasks in the same User Story to keep it nice and neat.
To view all User Stories, please see the above link.

# Scope
For the site to reach its full potential for a user, these features are included in the release:

# Wireframe

# Datasbase model

# Design

The overall idea for the design was based on parchment - old, stained brown parchment which gives a bit of an old cozy feeling without coming across as pretentious. 
The issue I find with some blogs and forums for creative writing is that they can portray this sense of professionalism that scares beginners away from joining in on writing, which is something I don't want on my website. 
I want it to feel welcoming and homey, which is another reason for the choice of colors and layouts.

Given the name of the website, I decided to implement a few drops of ink here and there, mainly for the logo and for user to "ink" a post in the same way you "like" a post, giving the webpage a bit more character and staying true to its name.

No more endless scrolling through cluttered pages overflowing with thin lines of post links; no more uncomfortable brightness that has you reaching for sunglasses; this webpage offers calming nuances of brown with a splash of color.

## Colors
I based the colors around the background image and used [Coolors](https://coolors.co) to create a palette based on one of the nuances. 

![Palette](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691166288/palette_e1c8em.png)

From this palette, I ended up focusing on the colors #3a2202 and #b96e46, and a few details of #774605. With black text on top of these reddish brown colors pop enough to make the font visible, but not without taking away from the calm vibes.

## Fonts

For fonts I ended up with Inkut Antiqua for main headers and links. I searched for "Ink" on [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com) and stumbled across this font by accident, but felt immediately that it fits the vibe of my website.

![Inkut](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691167044/font-inknut_yimden.png)

For paragraphs, I picked Roboto, which is a very casual font that works well together with Inkut that stands out as a more expressive font, and I found these two to compliment each other nicely.

![Roboto](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691167044/font-roboto_dfxcrd.png)

# Features
- Home page
    - Navbar

    The navbar consists of a basic Bootstrap navbar with tabs and a dropdown for categories that includes a hamburger menu for smaller viewports.
    When logged in, the user can navigate between the home page, available categories, create a new ink, or sign out.
    For users without an account or who aren't logged in, they can navigate between the home page, available categories, sign in, or create an account.
    The logo also serves as a link back to the home page.

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146805/img-nav_c8igfc.png)

    - Intro

    The home page introduction consists of a few paragraphs of text explaining what the website is about and for whom, inspiring users to create their own Inks and leaving feedback or inkdrops (likes) on others'.

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691168745/img-intro_m958o1.png)

    - Inks

    After scouring the internet and Slack for inspiration for the structure of how the posts should be displayed, I ended up taking layout inspiration from [Kathrin's Haiku blog](https://github.com/Kathrin-ddggxh/woohoo-haiku), as they are of perfect size for cards displaying little information, compared to a lot of other blogs that need bigger cards that often includes images. With this Bootstrap card layout, the posts are responsive in all sizes, and stack prettily on smaller screens without sacrificing any text.

    Adding to the layout, I found a watercolor-esque wallpaper that I faded to a lighter opacity for the background, adding to an inky feel.

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146806/img-posts_yiuvph.png)

    - Footer

    The footer is very basic and straight-forward, offering links to social media.

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146804/img-footer_aazqge.png)

- Create a new Ink
    - Write

    The layout for the form to write an Ink is kept very simplistic, as creating an Ink should't feel like rocket science. It consists of an author input, category, title, an excerpt if the user feels like adding one, and then the main content. Below are two buttons, one for submitting the Ink and once for cancelling, which returns the user to the home page.

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146805/img-create_sfsiwh.png)

    - Edit Ink

    Similarly to the Create a new Ink page, the Edit page is very simplistic. The user can update the title, excerpt, and main content. There are two buttons below, one for updating the Ink, and one for cancelling out of edit mode. This can only be accessed by the author of the Ink.

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147794/img-update_jxgaif.png)

    - Delete Ink

    Should the user decide to delete an Ink, they'll be directed to a page where they are asked to confirm if they with to delete it or not, giving them the options to go ahead and delete their Ink, or cancel out and return to the home page.

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146804/img-delete_j7e422.png)

- Category Archive

    - Category

    When browsing the category list, the 

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147906/img-category_swghga.png)

- Account
    - Create account

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146805/img-create-account_ugtqsx.png)

    - Sign in/Sign out

    ![Image](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691146742/img-sign-in_a3hyn0.png)


# Technologies Used
## Languages
- HTML5
- CSS
- Python
- Javascript
## Django packages
## Frameworks/Libraries

## Resourses
- [Table Converter](https://tableconvert.com/) for Manual Testing
- [Tinypng](https://tinypng.com/) for compressing background image

# Credits

## Images
- [Background image](https://www.pexels.com/photo/empty-brown-canvas-235985/)
- [Quote image](https://abstract.desktopnexus.com/get/1737801/?t=146uo7bue09b2o59gjgv030rd364ccdb5086d33)
- [Ink Card Image](https://wallpapercave.com/w/wp1938057)

## Icons
- https://icon-sets.iconify.design/mdi/ink/
- https://icon-sets.iconify.design/mdi/ink-plus/
- https://icon-sets.iconify.design/mdi/ink-plus-outline/

## Sources for example posts
- [Poem by Sappho](https://ozofe.com/sappho/to-atthis-the-inconstant/)
- [Poem by Maya Angelou](https://ozofe.com/maya-angelou/on-aging/)
- [Heiku by Ezra Pond](https://reedsy.com/discovery/blog/haiku-poem-examples)
- [Part of the lyrics to War by Poets Of the Fall](https://www.songlyrics.com/poets-of-the-fall/war-lyrics/)
- [The story of an Hour by Kate Chopin](https://americanliterature.com/author/kate-chopin/short-story/the-story-of-an-hour ) 
- [Lyric part of Lie to Me by Riell](https://genius.com/Riell-lie-to-me-lyrics) 

# Testing

## Validator testing


[W3 HTML checker](https://validator.w3.org)

All pages of the website has been run through W3, with two of them coming out with seemingly false positive results.

## No errors

- Sign in

![SignIn](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/test-login_fl1u4l.png)

- Sign out

![SignOut](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/test-sign-out_s9dhoi.png)

- Sign up

![SignUp](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/test-signup_bftkjh.png)

 - Home page

![Home](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/test-home_rwd4lx.png)

 - Add new ink

![AddInk](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/test-add-ink_tq3a5e.png)

 - View Ink post

![Category](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/test-category_w6bujd.png)

- Delete Ink

![InkDelete](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/text-delete_jhahvj.png)


## Errors

The errors have been documented into their separate Issue [Here #12](https://github.com/AuroraStorm-sw/Inspired-Ink/issues/12).

## [CI Python Linter](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/)

Each .py file has been passed through the linter with very few errors; those coming up were in regards to trailing whitespace, missing space, and missing new line at the end of the code. These were all easily fixed, and the files are now free of errors.

![linter](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691147698/linter-test-model_hslsux.png)

### Accessability

## [Lighthouse](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/overview/)

![Lighthouse](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691159942/lighthouse_eipqg2.png)

## [Axe DevTools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/axe-devtools-web-accessib/lhdoppojpmngadmnindnejefpokejbdd)

![AxeDevtools](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691160050/axe-devtools_nary38.png)

## [WAVE](https://wave.webaim.org/)
![WAVE](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg4yefryk/image/upload/v1691164948/wave_dxpdvl.png)


## Manual testing


![]()
![]()
![]()

| Action           | Expected Result                                                                                                                                | Pass |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| Account creation | I can create a new account with username and password, and be notified that it's created successfully, or if not                               | Pass |
| Sign in          | I can sign in with my username and accound and get notified that I've been successfully signed in                                              | Pass |
| Sign out         | When signed in, I can sign out of the webpage, be asked if I'm sure I want to sign out, and be notified that I've been successfully signed out | Pass |
| Navbar           | Each link in the navbar takes me to the correct corresponding page. There are different paged depenting on if I am signed in or not.           | Pass |
| Create post      | When signed in, I can write an 'Ink', being a cretive text of my choice, and submit it. I'll be notified that it's successfully submitted.     | Pass |
| Edit post        | When signed in, I can edit my own posts, and be notified that it has been successfully edited                                                  | Pass |
| Delete post      | When signed in, I can delete my own posts, be asked if I'm sure I want to delete it, and be notified that it has been successfully deleted     | Pass |
| Comment on post  | When signed in, I can leave feedback on other's posts. My comment is then visible beneath the post.                                            | Pass |
| Like/unlike post | When signed in, I can like and unlike other's posts. The icon changes                                                                          | Pass |
| Category         | I can browse different categories via the navbar                                                                                               | Pass |
| Pagination       | I can browse through multiple pages on the home page if there are more than six posts                                                          | Pass |
| Links            | All of the links throughout the page are fully functional                                                                                      | Pass |
| Buttons          | All of the buttons direct me to their designated function                                                                                      | Pass |
| Footer           | I can reach the different social medias sites via the footer, and they all open in new tabs.                                                   | Pass |



# Bugs
1. Lingering 'missing data' in category table after migrating the category model and category addition to Post without creating a category index.
Solution: Reset the database to remove the error and recreate superuser.

2. Static files not loading on Heroku.
Solution: Through tutor support, they found a spelling error in loading style.css in base.html after a lot of trial and error.

3. View height on the webpage is too high, forcing the user to scroll to see the footer.


# Deployment

# Final thoughts
